# Functions

## <ins>Function declaration</ins>**:**

_Syntax:_
```
returnType functionName(argumentList);
```

Example:
```c++
float add(float, float);
int sum(int a, int b);
```

<ins>In function declaration the names of the arguments are dummy variables and therefore, they are optional.</ins>

<ins>A function can also have an open parameter list by the use of the **ellipses**(</ins>`...`<ins>)</ins>.

Example:
```c++
void do_something(...);
```

## <ins>Inline functions</ins>
**These functions are just like _macros_.**

_The compiler replaces the function call with the corresponding function code(**just like macro expansion**)._

<details>
<summary><strong>NOTE</strong></summary>
The keyword `inline` merely sends a <strong>request</strong>, not a <strong>command</strong> to the compiler.
So the compiler may ignore this request if the function definition is too long.
</details>

## <ins>Default arguments</ins>
**Understand through an example:**
```c++
float amount(float principal, int period, float rate=0.15);
```
This is a function declaration, so one thing we can uderstand from here is that <ins>default arguments are added at the time of function declaration</ins>.

The default value($0.15$) is assigned to only $rate$ why??
Because <ins>default values can be added only from right to left</ins>.

So declaration such as this one below
```c++
float amount(float principal=9.7, int period, float rate=0.15);
```
is wrong/invalid.

However,
```c++
float amount(float principal=9.7, int period=1, float rate=0.15);
```
is valid.
So, we can deduce that <ins>default values can be assigned to <strong>all</strong> the arguments in the function declaration</ins>.

### How functions with default arguments are called?
<ins>Functions with default arguments are called just like normal functions</ins>.

```c++
float amount(float principal, int period, rate=0.15);
```

A function call to this function would look something like this:

```c++
amount(1000.0, 5);
```
This function call basically calls the `amount()` function the two values passes as arguments are for `principal` and `period`
respectively while the value of `rate` remains $0.15$.

Whereas, the following function call:
```c++
amount(1000, 4, 0.25);
```
This function call passes values for all the arguments, i.e for `principal`, `period` and `rate` respectively.

<details>
<summary><em>const</em> arguments</summary>
<strong>const arguments cannot be modified. Any attempt to modify them will result in an error</strong>
</details>

## <ins>Function overloading</ins>

**Different functions with <ins>same name</ins> but different argument list, number or type. _The return type may/maynot be same_**.

Steps involved in function selection:

* Compiler tries to find an exact match in which the types of actual arguments are the same and use that function.
* If an exact match is not found, the compiler uses the <ins>integral promotion</ins> to actual arguments,
<p align="center">
${\color{green}char}$ to ${\color{blue}int}$
</p>

<p align="center">
${\color{green}float}$ to ${\color{blue}double}$
</p>
to find a match.

* When the first two approaches fail, then the compiler tries to use <ins>built-in</ins> conversions(_implicit assignment conversions_) to actual arguments and then uses the function whose match is unique.
* If all the steps fail, then the compiler will try the <ins>user-defined</ins> conversions in combination with integral promotions and built-in conversions to find a unique match.

<p align="center">
&#9678; &#9678; &#9678;
</p>
