# <ins>Friendly Functions</ins>
${\color{yellow}General\ form\:}$
```c++
class ABC{
	.....
	.....
	public:
	......
	......
	friend void xyz(void);
};
```
* The function declaration should be **preceded** by the keyword `friend`.
* The function definition doesn't use either the keyword `friend` or the scope resolution `::` operator.
* A friend function **has full access rights to the private members** of the class.

**Special characteristics of friend functions:**

* Not in the scope of the class inside which it is declared and hence can't be called via class objects.
* Can be called lika normal function.
* Cannot access class members directly and has to use an object of the class inside which it's declared.
* Can be declared in public or private section of the class without changing its meaning.

_Member functions of one class be friend functions of another class._

Example:
```c++
class X{
	public:
		int fun1();
};

class Y{
	public:
		friend int X::fun1(); // member function of class X is the friend function of class Y
};
```

Another example:
```c++
class X{
	....
	....
	....
	friend class Y;
};

class Y{
	....
	....
};
```
In the second example all the member functions of class Y have become friend functions of class X.

## <ins>What is ${\color{Emerald}Forward\ declaration}$ of a class?</ins>

In simple words, it's basically declaring the class name like a variable before it's actually used to create objects or even declared properly.

Example:
```c++
class B; // forward declaration of class B

class A{
	....
	....
};

class B{ // proper declaration of class B
	....
	....
};
```

<details>
<summary><ins><strong><em>NOTE:</em></strong></ins></summary>
**For a friend function to be able to access private members of two classes, it must be declared as a friend in both the class.**
**However, the definition of this function is done only once i.e this function is defined only once.**
</details>

<p align="center">
&#9678; &#9678; &#9678;
</p>
